# JMicroCMS
Platform-flexible "MicroCMS" that uses: PHPv7.4+; jQuery;Handlebars.js;MySQL; (Simple &amp; Fast WP Alternative)

The History:
The original concept of this project began in 2011 with PHPv5.3 on IIS with jQuery & MS SQL Server 2000 via ADOdb5. The initial target audience was mainly for elderly persons to provide health care information, so the requirement for very old backwards browser compatibility was paramount (it needed to support the dreaded IE5 & IE6). A WYSIWYG editor was a key requirement since the tool was built as a driver for a brand new Social Media campaign by a mid-sized organization. SPAW2 was chosen for its vast capabilities for custom CSS & HTML formatting. The 2 person Social Media Coordination Team were not software developers & needed a simple tool to create new content to share to Social Media quickly. At the time, WordPress (WP) was extremely resource intensive & =< PHPv5.3 was still not as fast as Perl5 in many aspects (eg: loops). The cost for servers with enough resources to sustain large amounts of traffic to allow for video playback (also a requirement of the original version - Flowplayer) without a lot of "chop" was rather high in comparison to today. So JMicroCMS was created to fill that need for its time.

A year or so later, JMicroCMS was ported to a Linux Platform running Apache2.2, PHPv5.4 with MySQL for a different purpose. JMicroCMS was always designed with SEO in mind, so the transition to a "Web Presence" tool was graceful & highly effective. As Major Search Engines began shifting to a Localization-centric algorithm, JMicroCMS thrived above many other competitor web sites that were built with WP & drove interest & foot traffic into brick & mortar retail businesses via extremely high search engine rankings for local keyword searches as well as long-tail queries. JMicroCMS continued to run for about 5 years with very little project maintenance required. In 2014, Cloudflare was added to replace the complex caching mechanisms in conjunction with an upgrade to Apache2.4 & a tabbed UI for the CMS Admin Console was added using Angular.js v1.3. In 2015, the JMicroCMS project was ported to both CentOS & Ubuntu cloud-based resources (eg Digital Ocean, Linode, etc). In 2016, a minor enhancement of TinyMCE was implemented to further reduce the storage footprint & server resource demand after an update to PHPv7.0 caused issues to SPAW2, which was no longer being maintained. During the upgrade/update to PHP7 in 2016, ADOdb5 became an issue with deprecations (which was not being very well maintained at that time; Though there has been a resurgence in maintenance in recent years!) PHP::PDO was implemented (far too late, but ADOdb5 worked very well for a long time). In late 2017, the last JMicroCMS=powered website was ultimately replaced with WP (though at a higher server cost & a drop in Organic Search Engine that was yet to be recovered).

Since 2011, WP has evolved profoundly with the enhancements of PHP7 & the optimizations of MySQL (& derivatives like MySQL) in semi-recent version releases (eg: MySQL v8+, PHPv7.4+, etc). That said, WP has also become rather confusing & bloated with options & menus that are deeply nested & not obvious to inexperienced users of CMS tools. Also for developers when you add layers of complexity to WP like Roots.io or similar WP-based frameworks. At scale, WP can still be very resource-hungry & somewhat expensive to host in certain situations. With ultra low costs for cloud-based server resource & the easy-to-deploy tools like Vagrant, Docker & Kubernetes along with Cloudformation, Terraform & even Azure DevOps CI/CD Pipeline/Builds can leverage a very light-weight application that runs across the gamut of server OSes & resources while remaining highly beneficial to companies of any size & in any sector.

In Q3 of 2020 (well into the Coronavirus Pandemic) JMicroCMS is being resurrected with a low-cost cloud-based micro-instance server running a load-balanced, reverse proxy configuration of nginx in front of Apache, with MariaDB(s) LBed to multiple backup web/DB servers upstream. While the project was in shambled in 09/2020 from multiple data losses (and a few forgotten credentials...), it's being re-birthed as a "collection of ports" from multiple sources & ancient repos. It also makes for a fun "minimalist optimization" side project or a "back to basics" learning tool for brand new developers. 
